---
layout: archive
title:  "What is AWS S3?"

categories:
  - aws
tags:
  - computer
  - cloud
---





 S3 is an abbreviation of Simple Storage Service.   
 In short, this is a service that provides us a space where we can save files.   
 One of the most common ways of saving files is running a server using a hard disk or SSD.   
 But as you know such HD or SSD can be broken down as time goes by.   
 Then our files saved on it would be lost or cracked.   
 Amazon promises 99.999999999% of durability which is an exact calculated number.   
 That's why Amazon provides this service and why people use this service.   
 Also, think about using a private server like 1TB of HD.   
 At first, we usually don’t use all of this storage rather we only use a small portion of it.   
 But think about how much we paid for this storage.   
 We paid for 1TB of hard disk machine which is very expensive and it is a very uneffective way of using money.   
 S3 provides us to use it more elastically, as they charge only for the actual storage we used.   
 And also in some cases, there’s a file such as we don’t have to access very often. Such as a legal document which we have to save for like 5 years. The Original storage services charged us for the same money whether we use it every day or once in a decade. But S3 provides cheaper plans for these kinds of files.   
 If you are interested in more details this link would help you understand more about S3.   

 aws S3 homepage   
 <https://aws.amazon.com/s3/features/?pg=ln&sec=be/>


 S.J.Son
